==========
= WEEK 1 =
==========

True/False: The web was designed to handle secure information.
    False

What is the broad goal of HTTP?
    To facilitate the transfer of files

What three things are included at the beginning of an HTTP request?
    The HTTP method, the file being requested, and the version of the protocol being used in the request

What is the main difference between static content and dynamic content?
    A dynamic content request causes the server to execute code and return the output of that code to the client

Why do security experts need to be aware of web server internals?
    Vulnerabilities in web server internals often permit access to the server operating system

What is a request for comment, or RFC?
    A document that defines a standard or best practice

How does the HTTP RFC describe HTTP?
    Using a context-free grammar

What are the three main parts of HTTP requests/responses?
    The request-line/status line, the headers, and the message body

What is the difference between a 403 response code and a 401 response code?
    A 401 response code indicates that access control is stopping the user from accessing a resource 
    while a 403 response code indicates that access control is stopping the server from accessing a resource

Why must encryption be used in conjunction with basic HTTP authorization?
    Basic HTTP authorization only base64 encodes credentials, it doesn’t encrypt them

What is parsing?
    The process of determining if some input follows the rules of a language.

What is a terminal symbol in a context-free grammar?
    A symbol that appears in a string

What is a non-terminal symbol in a context-free grammar?
    Part of the deep structure of a string’s syntax that does not appear in the final string

What is a production rule?
    A rule for replacing a non-terminal with a combination of terminal and non-terminal symbols

How do non-terminals relate to parser implementations?
    Generally, there is one function in the parser for processing each non-terminal symbol

What is the formal cause of a syntax error?
    A production rule was either completely (as in the case of a missing operand) or 
    partially not followed (as in the case of a missing close parenthesis)

==========
= WEEK 2 =
==========

What layers of the OSI model do sockets belong in?
    They are a programmable interface between OSI layers 4 and layers 5.

How is data sent across Python sockets?
    As a sequence of ASCII characters that Python processes as a string.

What data needs to be provided to the Python socket constructor?
    An IP address (string) and a port (integer) as a Python tuple.

What functions is used to force a Python socket to accept incoming connections?
    Bind and listen

What does the function called named 'accept' do?
    It is a blocking call that causes the server to wait for new connections.

How do you encrypt using SSL/TLS in Python?.
    By creating an ssl context object that wraps around the socket

What classic goals of information security are undermined by man-in-the-middle attacks?
    Confidentiality and integrity.

What is the primary defense against man-in-the-middle attacks?
    Encryption

True/False: Encryption prevents man-in-the-middle attacks by stopping attackers from intercepting HTTP requests.
    False. Attackers can still intercept requests. They cannot read or modify the requests.

What classic information security goal is undermined by denial of service attacks?
    Availability

What is reflection in the context of denial-of-service attacks?
    Reflection is when the attacker can send an instruction to some un-compromised host 
    and cause that host to send network traffic to the intended victim.

What is amplification in the context of denial-of-service attacks?
    When the attacker can send one unit of traffic to a reflection point and cause 
    more than one unit of traffic to be sent to the actual intended victim.

What is the relationship between SSL/TLS?
    TLS versions are just new versions of SSL under a new name.

True/False: HTTPS traffic is encrypted using the public key in a web server's HTTPS certificate?
    False. A temporary key is generated and used to encrypt the traffic.

Who are the trust anchosr in public key infrastructure?
    Root certificate authorities

What part of the SSL/TLS handshake contains the specific algorithm that will be used to encrypt the connection?
    Server HELLO

What are two common reasons an organization may implement TLS termination?
    1) to offload the work of encrypting traffic onto a more powerful server and 2) to inspect traffic for attacks

What was the impact of web servers not validating the length of strings used in SSL/TLS heartbeat communications?
    A memory over-read that leaked the private keys

How do web application firewalls determine what traffic to block?
    They block HTTP requests that match a regular expression which describes a malicious request.

Why is using a co-located web application firewall riskier than using a web-application firewall proxy?
    An exploitable vulnerability in the WAF would provide access to the web-server.

What attack does a load-balancer assist with?
    Denial of Service

What attacks can CDNs assist with?
    Denial of service and application-level attacks, since CDNs often make use of WAFs.

What additional benefit does making use of a CDN provide?
    Risk is off-loaded to a third party

==========
= WEEK 3 =
==========

Where are Apache configurations stored?
    /etc/apache2

What configuration files would need to be changed to make Apache listen on a different IP/port?
    ports.conf and your virtual host configuration files in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled

What security controls require modifying Apache configurations?
    SSL/TLS and co-located web application firewalls.

What is a site's root directory and where is that setting found?
    The site's root directory is the location on the file system where files to 
    be served are found and it's located in the virtual host configuration file.

What is the primary configuration file for MySQL?
    /etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf

In the current default install of MySQL on Ubuntu 18.04, who can login as the root MySQL user?
    Sudoers of the Linux OS

What is the relationship between database servers and databases?
    One to many. One database server may host many databases

What built in database tables are used for database management?
    The mysql and information schema databases.

What table are MySQL user credentials stored in?
    mysql.users

What are the two pieces of information needed to identify a particular MySQL user?
    The username and the host user can connect from.

What does CRUD mean?
    Create, Read, Update, Delete

What SQL operations are used for 'create' functionality?
    Create database, create table, and insert

What SQL operation is used for 'read' functionality?
    Select

What SQL operation is used for 'update' functionality?
    Update

What SQL operation is used for 'delete' functionality?
    Delete (from) and drop (which wasn't discussed in the video)

What keyword is used to restrict the number of records that are read/updated/deleted?
    where, as in where userid='1234'

What is the problematic pattern in a PHP script leading to an SQL injection vulnerability?
    Building a database query to execute by concatenating user input with database commands without validating user input

The following query is vulnerable to SQL injection. What character would you need to begin the SQL 
Injection with? select first, last from persons where last='$input'
    A single quotation mark

The following query is vulnerable to SQL injection. What character would you need to begin 
the SQL Injection with? select first, last from persons where last="$input"
    A double quotation mark

The following query is vulnerable to SQL injection. What character would you need to begin the
SQL Injection with, assuming ID is a numerical field? select first, last from persons where id=$input
    A number

Why is the type of cross-site scripting presented described as "reflected"?
    Because the attacker tricks the victim into making an HTTP request containing the malicious 
    javascript which the server sends back to the victim for execution. The javascript "bounces" off the server.

Where does the malicious script execute?
    On the victim's computer, not on the server

How could a web-server administrator identify that someone is exploiting a
cross-site scripting vulnerability in the processing of a GET parameter?
    GET parameters will appear in server-logs. The administrator could search their Apache server logs.

How could XSS be defeated?
    There are two ways. First, using secure headers discussed in week 1. Second, 
    by sanitizing all output from the web-sever to make sure it does not contain unintended Javascript.

What artifact, if acquired, would let an attacker impersonate a user to another website?
    A cookie containing a session ID.

Which of the two vulnerabilities exploit directly enabled the attacker to steal the session cookie?
    Cross-site Scripting

Why was Javascript injected into the ID field?
    Because that field was echoed back without sanitization

What would the attacker have to do in order to gain access to the session token?
    Send the session token as data in an HTTP request as in the case of the Javascript redirect used in this video.

Could SQL injection have been used to leverage cross-site scripting in this particular attack?
    No; none of the SQL results were ever printed to the screen.

What type of cross-site scripting was leveraged here?
    Reflected XSS

What part of the CIA triad does directory traversal undermine?
    C - Confidentiality

What is the cause of directory traversal vulnerabilities?
    A server-side scripts that reads the contents of a file without validating the file path.

What files can be accessed through local file inclusion?
    Files stored on the webserver

What type of file inclusion is possible given the default PHP configuration?
    Local File inclusion

What PHP setting must be changed to permit remote file inclusion?
    allow_url_include

In remote file inclusion, where is the backdoor located?
    The attacker's webserver

In remote file inclusion, where is the backdoor executed?
    The victim webserver

What command line tool should be used to process HTTP requests that invoke PHP?
    php-cgi

How is GET data passed to php-cgi?
    As command-line arguments

How is header data passed to php-cgi?
    As environment variables

How is data contained in POST requests passed to php-cgi?
    Via stdin. Using pipes are easiest.

What well-known vulnerability in Apache was due to the way in which headers were handed off to bash as environment variables for further processing?
    Shellshock

==========
= WEEK 4 =
==========

When looking to extract information from records in other database tables, why do you have to
find out how many columns are being returned from the database query?
    Because you need to use the union keyword to pull from other tables and union requires you to add the same number of fields as the original query

What database table and fields contain credentials for logging in to MySQL?
    The mysql.user and the user/authentication_string fields.

If MySQL is on the same host as Apache, how might an attacker pivot from SQL Injection into a full compromise?
    By writing a PHP backdoor into a file that can either be accessed directly (if the web root can be written to by MySQL)
    or into a location where it can be paired with local file inclusion.

A PHP script involves a executing a bash utility on data provided by the user. What symbols may be used to inject your own bash command?
    ; for sequencing commands.
    && for joining commands.
    | for piping the output of one command to another.

What user account will bash commands injected through a command injection vulnerability run under?
    The service account of the web-server, such as www-data.

What is the recommended mechanism for defeating SQL Injection attacks?
    Prepared statements

Why are prepared statements recommended?
    When the value is substituted into the query string, the MySQL preparation tools automatically
    sanitize the input for symbols that have special meaning to MySQL.

What function is used to sanitize input and prevent cross-site scripting?
    htmlspecialchars

Why should output also be sanitized?
    As a defense-in-depth control. If an attacker is able to bypass input validation and inject
    malicious content that has special meaning to web browsers, the output validation may catch and remove it.

What function is used to prevent command injection?
    escapeshellcmd

What is the motivation to used existing tools for input validation rather than implementing your own?
    Catching all symbols that have special meaning can be very challenging. This offload development time 
    onto the developers of the tools and off of your web development team, reducing development time. For example, 
    if a new injection technique is found, your development needs to only patch their libraries rather than write 
    their own regular expressions for detection.

What is the agent responsible for making access control decisions if access control is handled with .htaccess files?
    The Apache web server

What are two major security considerations for deploying access control with .htaccess?
    1) Basic authentication is the most form of .htaccess, which is not secure; Https needs to be deployed. 
    2) .htpasswd files should not be located in a www directory as it would permit users accessing the website to download the credentials.

How do password hashes fit into the security model of a web application?
    They're a defense in depth control. Passwords should be hashed so that, if the database is 
    compromised through some other exploit (like SQL injection), the credentials cannot be recovered

Why entity is responsible for making access control decisions about credentials stored in a MySQL database?
    The web application's server-side scripting

What entity makes access control decisions if LDAP is deployed?
    The LDAP server (or domain controller, if AD is used)

What additional security consideration should be taken when using LDAP for authenticating web application users?
    LDAP's default configuration is not encrypted. LDAPS needs to be used to encrypt communication between the web application and the LDAP server.











